Dc jc/update mesh guide (#5600)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-4-implementation.md

hoverSnippet: Learn how to get started with dbt Mesh
---

### Where should your mesh journey start?

> Moving from to a dbt Mesh represents an meaningful change in development and deployment architecture. We’ve seen migrations fail for two reasons: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving to a dbt Mesh represents a meaningful change in development and deployment architecture. We’ve seen migrations fail for two reasons: 
```

> 1. lacking buy-in that a dbt Mesh is the right long-term architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Lack of buy-in that a dbt Mesh is the right long-term architecture
```

> 2. lack of alignment on a well-scoped starting point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Lack of alignment on a well-scoped starting point
```

> Provided you have both of these, you’re ready to start your migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provided you're not experiencing those blockers, you’re ready to start your migration.
```

> Provided you're not experiencing those blockers, you’re ready to start your migration.

Reviewer 2: Let's frame this as a "pre-mortem" exercise, so it doesn't sound so negative right out of the gate. "Before any sufficiently complex software refactor or migration, it's important to ask, 'Why might this not work?' The two most common reasons we've seen..."

> This migration should be organized and planned according to how your project(s) are already being grouped, built, and deployed. The goal is to define and formalize your organizational interfaces, and can use this information to inform our decision to split our project apart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration should be organized and planned according to how your project(s) are being grouped, built, and deployed. The goal is to define and formalize your organizational interfaces and use the information to make your decision to split your project apart.
```

> This change is **primarily organizational**. The most important component is alignment of your teammates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change is _primarily_ organizational. The most important component is the alignment of your teammates. 
```

- **Talk to teams** about what sort of separation naturally exists right now.
  - Are there various domains people are focused on?
  - Are there various sizes, shapes, and sources of data that get handled separately (such as click event data)?
  - Are there people focused on separate levels of transformation, such as landing and staging data or building marts?
  - Is there a single team that is *downstream* of your current dbt project, who could more easily migrate onto dbt Mesh as a consumer? 

When attempting to define your project interfaces, you should consider investigating:

> - **Your jobs** - which sets of models are most often built together?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your jobs:** Which sets of models are most often built together?
```

> - **Your lineage graph** - how are models connected?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your lineage graph:** How are models connected?
```

> - **Your selectors** defined in `selectors.yml` - how do people already define resource groups?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Your selectors(defined in `selectors.yml`):** How do people already define resource groups?
```
